In educating students for  adult  work and  adult  life, American  schools  try, above  all, to bepractical. American education has  been greatly  influenced by  the  writings of  a    famous 20th-century philosopher named John Dewey.  Democracy and Education: An Introduction to thePhilosophy of  Education is a  1916  book by John  Dewey  in which he sought to at once synthesize, criticize, and expand upon the democratic   (or proto-democratic) educational philosophies of Jean-Jacques Rousseau and  Plato.  He saw Rousseau's  philosophy as over-emphasizing the individual and  Plato's  philosophy  as  over-emphasizing the society in which the individual lived.For Dewey, this distinction was largely a    false one; likeGeorge Herbert Mead and Lev Vygotsky, he viewed the mind and its formation as a communal process. Thus, the individual is a meaningful concept only when regarded as an inextricable part of his or her society, and thesociety has  no meaning  apart  from its realization in the lives of its individual  members. As evidenced in  his  later Experience and Nature(1925),  this practical element, learning by doing, arose from his subscription to the philosophical school of Pragmatism.Dewey believed that the only worthwhile knowledge was knowledge that could be used. He convinced educators that it    was  pointless  to make  students  memorize  useless facts that theywould quickly forget. Rather,  schools should  teach  thinking processes  and skills  that  affect howpeople live and work. Dewey also influenced  teaching techniques. Education must be  meaningful, and children learn best by doing -  these are the basic ideas of progressive education. Thus, science is    taught
largely through student experimentation; the study of music involves  making music; democratic principles are put  into practice  in the  student council; group projects  encourage creativity, individual initiative, leadership, and teamwork.What do American schools see as their educational responsibility to students? The scope is very broad indeed. Today's schools teach skills and information once left for the parents to teach at home. For example, it is    common for the public school curriculum to include a   campaign against cigarette smoking and drug  abuse, a   course in driver's  education,  cooking and sewing classes, consumer education, and  sex  education. Most American  grammar  schools have also added computer skills to their curriculum.  As human knowledge has expanded  and life has become increasingly complex,  the schools  have had to go far beyond the originalthree  Rs  ("reading,writing, and arithmetic") that they were created to teach.American high schools  have a   dual commitment: (a) to offer a   general college preparatory program for  those  who are  interested in higher  education;  and (b) to provide opportunities  forvocational training for students who  plan to  enter  the work  force immediately after high school graduation. For the college-bound, high schools offer advanced classes in math, sciences, socialsciences, English, and  foreign languages.  They also  have Advanced  Placement  (AP) courses,which enable good students to earn college credit while still in high  school.  But in the samebuilding other students take vocational courses such as shorthand and mechanical drawing, and some participate in work/study  programs  which enable  them to get high  school credit for on-the-job training in various occupations.Today, more than ever  before,  American  schools are committed  to helping foreign-born students adjust to life in  an  American class-room.  The Bilingual Education Act of l968 provided federal funds for bilingual instruction, which allows students to study academic subjects totally or partially in their  native  language  while  they  are learning English. Bilingual education is    offered in about 70 languages including  Chinese,  Spanish, Vietnamese, and several  American Indian languages. Of course, this type of instruction is    available only where a   number of students speakthe same  foreign language.  In  addition, immigrant students have benefited from the l974Supreme Court ruling requiring public schools to provide special programs for students who speaklittle or no English. Today,  English as a  second language of instruction is common in American elementary and high schools.